Known problems with SLIME                                   -*- outline -*-

* Common to all backends

** Caution: network security
The `M-x slime' command has Lisp listen on a TCP socket and wait for
Emacs to connect, which typically takes on the order of one second. If
someone else were to connect to this socket then they could use the
SLIME protocol to control the Lisp process.

The listen socket is bound on the loopback interface in all Lisps that
support this. This way remote hosts are unable to connect.

* Backend-specific problems

** CMUCL

The default communication style :SIGIO is reportedly unreliable with
certain libraries (like libSDL) and certain platforms (like Solaris on
Sparc). It generally works very well on x86 so it remains the default.

** SBCL

SBCL versions from 0.8.15 to 0.8.21 should work.  Newer SBCL's may or
may not work.  Don't use multithreading with 2.4 kernels.

The (v)iew-source command in the debugger can only locate exact source
forms for code compiled at (debug 2) or higher. The default level is
lower and SBCL itself is compiled at a lower setting. Thus only
defun-granularity is available with default policies.

The XREF commands are not implemented.

** OpenMCL

We support OpenMCL 0.14.3.

The XREF commands are not available.

** LispWorks

On Windows, SLIME hangs when calling foreign functions or certain
other functions.  The reason for this problem is unknown.

We only support latin1 encoding.  (Unicode wouldn't be hard to add.)

** Allegro CL

Interrupting Allegro with C-c C-b can be slow.  This is caused by the
a relatively large process-quantum: 2 seconds by default.  Allegro
responds much faster if mp:*default-process-quantum* is set to 0.1.

** CLISP

We require version 2.33.2 or higher. We also require socket support, so
you may have to start CLISP with "clisp -K full".

Under Windows, interrupting (with C-c C-b) doesn't work.  Emacs sends
a signal 2 (= SIGINT), but the signal is either ignored or CLISP exits
immediately.

The backtrace doesn't include frames for compiled functions.  Changes
to CLISP's C code are needed to fix this problem.
Interpreted code is usually easer to debug.

M-. (find-definition) only works if the fasl file is in the same
directory as the source file.

** Armed Bear Common Lisp

The ABCL support is still new and experimental.

